Add post for v1.10.0 release (#210)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2024/kubewarden-1-10-release.md

For example, if a user has the apparmor policy deployed 5 times (with different
names, settings, etc), now only one instance of PolicyEvaluator will be
allocated for all of those 5 deployments.

In addition, we rely now on Wasmtime's pre-initialization of Wasm modules. This
allows us to keep a deduplicated list of all the policies in use, in their
pre-initialized form. This list is shared between all policy evaluators in the
policy-server.

#### Protection against policy memory leaks, and clean slate per policy

Before, there were long-running policy evaluators, ready to process policy requests.

Now, policy evaluation mode happens on-demand: we receive a request, a fresh
policy evaluator is created, used just for evaluation that request, and
discarded.

This is possible as we now leverage Wasmtime's pre-initialization, hence
creation time of policy evaluators in greatly reduced.

Using this on-demand approach to policy evaluators brings two main advantages:

- Impact of policies leaking memory is now virtualy non-existent.
- Each evaluation starts with a clean slate, preventing bugs caused by policies
  leaving unclean state between evaluations.

> #### Codebase simplification and increased test coverage

Author: @jordojordo  here, the css is missing what seems to be a bottom margin for the `ul`:

![image](https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/assets/2196685/071a56c1-4913-49d6-8409-8154646f7236)

Since this comes from the Hugo theme and I'm not sure how to tackle it, could you have a look? It may be just some secs for you.

Reviewer: @viccuad That seems to be coming from [this css rule](https://github.com/rancherlabs/projects-theme/blob/5e3258f90352c9558674a2cbf5148e8bc8984893/assets/sass/main.scss#L82) - It would be possible to override it, would you like me to override it for all of the `ul` elements within the blog?

Author: Thanks! I think it would be a good idea, yes.

Reviewer: I've added `10px` to the bottom margin for blog `ul` to match the top margin:

![margin](https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/assets/40806497/2c3b5430-8a01-4bb5-8f21-964024a85c1e)

  leaving unclean state between evaluations.

#### Codebase simplification and increased test coverage

Also, thanks to a big refactor, together with additional unit and integration
tests, the policy-server codebase has moved away from using a worker thread
pool for policy evaluation and into an async approach, removing codebase complexity.

Stay tunned for more performance improvements!

## WASI policies written in Go can now be context aware

Thanks to recent improvements in the official Go compiler, we have added
context-aware capabilities via WASI on to the kubewarden Go SDK, hence it is
now possible to write context-aware Go WASI policies.

As an example, have a look at the
[go-wasi-context-aware-test-policy](https://github.com/kubewarden/go-wasi-context-aware-test-policy).

See the WASI updated docs [here](TODO).

## Controller

The controller now reconciles divergences bewtween `ClusterAdmissionPolicies`
and `AdmissionPolicies` and their associated webhook objects, mitigating
possible attacks which delete or modify policy webhooks, changing or stopping
policies from working. (these attacks where already mitigated by RBAC rights).

## Audit Scanner

> Thanks to the community, the Audit Scanner can now be run with an in-memory store

Author: I could include the name of the contributors, which is more elegant:

```suggestion
Thanks to the community contributions from Nuno Nelas and Bruno René Santos, the
Audit Scanner can now be run with an in-memory store
```

> Thanks to the community, the Audit Scanner can now be run with an in-memory store

Reviewer 2: Yeah, that's great.

for policy reporting. By default, it keeps using Etcd and the PolicyReports CRDs.
This paves the way to implementing more performant storage solutions for policy
reporting, such a relational database backend.
See `--set auditScanner.store` in the kubewarden-controller chart for
configuring it.

## Kwctl

> When doing `kwctl inspect` we now hide signatures by default for brevity. One

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When doing `kwctl inspect` we now hide signatures by default, for brevity. One
```

can still obtain them using `kwctl inspect --show-signatures`. In addition,

> `kwctl inspect -o yaml` will produce sane YAML.

Reviewer 2: Was it insane previously? :-). I'd take out the word unless it previously wasn't correct.
```suggestion
`kwctl inspect -o yaml` provides alternative output.
```

Author: Maybe sane is a big word, but before, it wasn't correct YAML, it's a bug fix.

Author: reworded to "correct" with https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/pull/210/commits/ab70dd8186f8ca7c10ca16d6052a65fa5fd0389b.

## General housekeeping

> As our ongoing effort, we continously refactor and expand test coverage of the
> codebase. While not end-user actionable, the byproduct is more reliability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As part of our ongoing efforts, we continuously refactor and expand the test coverage of the
codebase. While not end-user actionable, the byproduct is more reliability.
```

## Helm chart

> In addition of feature flags, bumps of dependencies and policy versions, the
> kubewarden-defaults chart now has the ability to configure `securityContexts`
> for the default PolicyServer via the `--set securityContexts` value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to feature flags, bumps of dependencies, and policy versions, the
kubewarden-defaults chart now can configure `securityContexts`
for the default PolicyServer via the `--set securityContexts` value.
```

> The Policy Reporter subchart is now configured to not show by default the
> "Logs" tab. One can configure it (and other related things) through the
> `policy-reporter` value of the kubewarden-controller chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Policy Reporter sub-chart is now configured to not show by default the
"Logs" tab. You can configure it (and other related things) through the
`policy-reporter` value of the kubewarden-controller chart.
```

---
title: Kubewarden 1.10 release
authors:
  - Víctor Cuadrado
date: 2024-01-25
---

We have the first release of 2024, Kubewarden 1.10.0! 🎉🥳

And this one contains a nice bag of goodies, let's have a look!

## Reduced memory usage and increased reliability of Policy servers

A nice graph is worth a thousand words!

{{<figure src="/images/policy-server-optimization-1.10.png" alt="graph of the policy-server memory optimization"  >}}

Note the slightly lower memory consumption, and unchanging consumption when
scaling horizontally.

This graph represents the memory consumption of one instance of policy-server,
containing 13 policies:

- 4 instances of "verify-signatures"
- 5 of "pod-privileged"
- 2 of "go-wasi-template" (a 20MB policy, WASI being experimental)
- 1 Rego policy

> - 1 normal Rust policy

Reviewer 3: What's a not normal policy?
```suggestion
- 1 ordinary Rust policy
```

pool for policy evaluation to an asynchronous approach, removing codebase complexity.

Stay tuned for more performance improvements!

## WASI policies written in Go can now be context aware

Due to recent improvements in the official Go compiler, we have added
context-aware capabilities, via WASI, to the Kubewarden Go SDK, so it is
now possible to write context-aware Go WASI policies.

No divergence is needed when writing context-aware policies in WASI. Just use the Go SDK as usual,
making use of its `capabilities` package (which exposes quering for kubernetes
resources, OCI manifest digest, Sigstore signature verification, etc).

As an example, have a look at the
[go-wasi-context-aware-test-policy](https://github.com/kubewarden/go-wasi-context-aware-test-policy).

## Controller changes

The controller now reconciles divergences between `ClusterAdmissionPolicies`
and `AdmissionPolicies` and their associated webhook objects. This helps mitigate
against attacks that delete or modify policy webhooks, preventing policies from working correctly. RBAC rights already mitigate against these attacks.

## Audit Scanner changes

> Thanks to the community contributions from Nuno Nelas and Bruno René Santos, the

Reviewer 3: @nnelas @brunorene are you fine mentioning you by name here?

Reviewer 4: hallo @jvanz ! I'm also okay with it, thank you :D
